Algebra became University for its 25th birthday

On its 25th birthday, Algebra completed the accreditation process and became a University - Zagreb, December 21, 2023

Algebra University started three additional professional study programs in the current academic year 2023-2024, with a record number of over 2,000 enrolled students. Three new university studies will start at the beginning of the next academic year.

Algebra, having received a permit and a positive accreditation recommendation from the Agency for Science and Higher Education and a final positive opinion, has formally become the first private university in Croatia to focus on technical and digital studies.

The University of Zagreb carried the mentoring program for Algebra University through its component Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing.

Algebra University's mission is to develop a dynamic and innovative learning environment that empowers students and attendees to be leaders in the development and application of digital technologies in various fields. With the establishment of the Algebra University, the Rector, associate professor, Ph.D. Mislav Balković also became a full member of the Croatian Rector's Conference. At the University constituent sitting, along with Rector Balković, the new vice-rectors were also appointed.

The new Economic Council and University Senate were also formed at the constituent sitting held on the new Algebra campus in Zagreb. The function of the new Economic Council will be to encourage high-quality cooperation between the University and the economy, adapting educational programs to the needs of the labour market and future jobs.

Marijana Bačić, member of the Management Board and COO Business for HT business users, was elected president of the Economic Council. Members of the Economic Council are: HT, Ericsson Nikola Tesla, airt, APIS IT, 404 agency, Infobip, Atos, SPAN, NovaTV, RTL, HURA, Imago, Bruketa Žinić and Grey, Franck, Podravka, Jamnica, PBZ, Kofein agency, Marvin agency, Nanobit, Pine Studio, Good Game Global, AKD, Hrvatska pošta, Oraclum, Croatian Employers' Association, Večernji list, St. Catherine Specialty Hospital, but also colleagues from the Design study at the Faculty of Architecture and Computing study at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, both as a part of the University of Zagreb.

In addition to the new university studies, Algebra University plans to further develop its professional studies through membership in the European Association of Institutions in Higher Education - EURASHE.


Gaming and esports experts at Algebra

Gaming and esports industries have become an integral part of the culture of younger populations in recent years. Not long ago, playing video games was a hobby that gradually turned into a lucrative business and a successful career. The esports ecosystem includes not only professional esports players but also various stakeholders such as game development studios, video game publishers, and many other professions that may not seem directly related to the industry but are of immense importance.

Various experts from the fields of marketing, IT industry, management, and many other professions take their place within esports, and their knowledge and multidisciplinary experiences are crucial for realizing the full potential of the industry. Some of them are coming Zagreb in early December to Algebra University as part of the Beyond Esports conference. They will share their stories and educate the public about the potential, importance, and role that esports plays in the development of modern society.

Beyond Esports is the second conference organized by Good Game Global, a well-known Croatian agency that offers a wide range of services related to the organization of esports competitions, live stream production, digital marketing, and consulting activities related to the development of the industry. The main goals of the conference are to define, empower, bring closer, and educate visitors about the main values and potential of esports. Through interesting panels and one-day activities, the conference will host experts from some of the most influential global companies such as Blast, Meta, G2 Esports, Samsung, as well as domestic and regional giants like Sofascore, Superbet, Span, Outfit7, Happening, Croatian Telecom, Croatian Esports Federation, Croatian Olympic Committee, and GNK Dinamo. Through the perspective of each participant in this quite large and complex system, conference attendees will be able to firsthand learn about what an ordinary day looks like for a professional esports player, team, competition organizer, and how famous global and regional brands find their place and communicate their values through the esports filter.

The conference will take place at the Algebra campus on December 8, 2023. Tickets are on sale and can be found on Entrio.hr, and more detailed information, as well as the schedule and a list of all speakers, can be found on the official website - Beyond Esports conference. Secure your tickets, peek behind the scenes of professional gaming and the esports industry, and enjoy the stories of well-known world esports experts!"


Algebra’s winners of the A1 Student eChallenge League

The 11th edition of the most prestigious regional A1 Adria League has ended.

Last weekend in the finals to remember, the winners of three games - FIFA23, CS: GO and Brawl Stars - were crowned.

It was the most exciting finals so far of the Reboot Games Weekend powered by A1, and apart from the finalists of the well-known A1 Adria League, Algebra students also took their win at the Reboot Games Weekend powered by A1!

Algebra e-Sport team, Neo Čikić, Matej Galić, Marin Bakmaz, Renato Petričević, and Fran Kukovičić with their coach Valentino Slavec won first place in the A1 Student eChallenge league: CS: GO, and Tin Škrgatić is the winner of the A1 Student eChallenge league: FIFA 23. Congratulations to our winners!

The new format of the gaming competition, intended exclusively for students, was created in collaboration with A1 Croatia and the four most prominent technical faculties in Croatia - Algebra University College, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, the Faculty of Science and Zagreb University of Applied Sciences with a total prize fund of 1530 euros.

In addition to great fun, the idea of the competition was to encourage young people to develop their careers in the video game world.

Algebra University College is also leading the path of joining the gaming industry with its first professional bachelor study programme in game development!
